So let us talk about some of the historical contexts for
AI and 3D medical imaging and medical imaging in general.
So a very quick refresher on what's had been
happening in AI throughout the course of modern human history.
So as we've discussed,
AI term was first coined in the '50s,
and that's when people started talking about information theory and Turing tests.
There has been a lot of research in the space,
and there was a little bit of a disappointment, if you will,
about what the AI is capable of and we entered this era of AI winter.
In the '70s, there was another boom when
computers became smarter and more personal then again,
we had another IA winter.
Where we are now, as you're probably well aware,
we're in this age of deep learning revolution.
So we have larger computers right now,
we have better networks,
we have very good capabilities for doing distributed computing,
and we have seen what's possible with
applying deep learning to various computer vision tasks,
like just recognizing humans from a camera videos,
or labeling your photo collections or taking people in the photos.
This is where we are now and this is what the medical industry is looking at.
Medical industry is excited about thinking of what is possible with
this deep learning when it's applied to solve the key problems of health care.
So let's look specific as what has been happening in
the field of radiology over the past century.
Since its inception, radiology has undergone
several paradigm shifts with respect to the way images are viewed.
During the field's infancy,
images were hung up and reviewed at the light box.
Films that needed an emergent read,
where sometimes hung up while they were still drawing from
the development process giving rise to the term wet read,
a phrase that's still used today to describe an emergent preliminary interpretation.
The advent of digital image storage and viewing systems represented
a fundamental departure from the manner in
which images were viewed and who could view them.
No longer were images locally isolated to the radiologist reading room,
but could be transmitted across the hospital or even across different sites.
Moreover, computer peripherals allowed for
a more substantive interaction with imaging data,
further refining diagnostic capabilities.
Currently, there's a promise of yet another transition,
the adoption of AI-driven applications in day-to-day workflow to facilitate
more efficient and accurate interpretation and
potentially unlock new imaging research possibilities.
So we've gone over the history,
now let's see what the current state is in AI for medical imaging.